For our last exercise,
we were trying to add custom tooltips.
So let us take a look in the Hints button.
If we expand that,
we can see the syntax for
passing in a custom function
to one of these channels.
And this will work for
all kinds of different channels, but
it's especially used for, I think,
for these text based ones like title.
So here, we can see that if we specify
just a little JavaScript arrow function,
this is a quick easy way
to write this in line.
You could also imagine, for example,
elsewhere you've defined a complex
function that you want
to then be passing in.
That would also be fine.
But in this case, we're gonna have
a pretty quick little function.
So an arrow function is a great choice.
So commas, so this was my solution,
yours might look different,
was to pass in a function.
And you'll see this convention
of kind of naming the input
to these little functions that take
in data points from the data set,
naming d for datum, or
data point, what have you.
But this is arbitrary.
You could name it job,
you could name it row,
you could name it my friend the data,
whatever you want.
So in this case,
I am taking in each data point d, and
then returning a string template literal.
You could also be having a string
concatenated together with plus, or
you could be map joining an array
of values, or what have you.
I'm a big fan of these template literals,
so between these backticks,
having kind of a little string template
where then we can insert variables using
this dollar sign curly braces syntax.
And so here,
I've just made a kind of verbose string
of saying the conclusion status
after however long minutes,
and where I'm taking the minutes value,
and
kind of cutting it a little
bit to two places.
So if I Shift+Enter here, and
if our tooltips are not bugging us here,
it's very small.
But now I can see it says
cancelled after 3.10 minutes,
or failure after 3.35 minutes, etc.
If y'all had other solutions,
we'd love to see them.
Feel free to drop those
functions in the chat.
And I think a couple of folks were having
a little difficulty with those tooltips.
We might have run into some kind of
bug and plot, it's entirely possible.
So I will try and collect more data there.
And again, plot is open source.
So if you do ever run into any problems
with it, you can go to the GitHub
repo github.com/observablehq/plot and
file those.
Or maybe look out at
the existing issues and
see if anybody else has
already reported it.
But at this point,
we should have a pretty useful chart.
We've got all kinds of useful
questions answered by this chart.
We have which jobs ran in
which run number answered.
We have what was their conclusion status
just answered with a little bit of
redundancy, which can be helpful here in
both the fill and the stroke encoding.
And we have how long did each test take
to complete, answered by the opacity.
Then we have also what
are the details of each test job run?
In this case, in my solution,
the completion, and
then the duration
abbreviated in our tooltips.
So we also have a little bit of
interactivity already happening,
where if I am interested in a particular
entry, I can hover over it and
get some more details.
So questions so far?
And at the bottom of this worksheet,
you'll see my finished solution, just for
reference.
It's basically the same as what you'll
find in the solution, copy, paste.
But that is just for reference.
In case yours looks slightly different,
that's totally okay.
Anybody got questions at the moment?
>> Yeah, I have a quick question
just about the title option.
Is that just for creating tooltips?
Or are there other effects that we
can cause to that sell on a hover?
>> Are there other interactions
that we could code into this?
Yeah, so for plot, the simplicity
that plot tries to offer is for
it to be flexible enough that you can
create custom visualizations like this,
but high level enough that you
don't have to spend a lot of time.
I mean, as we can see,
we ran through this.
We were going a little bit
slowly cuz we're learning.
But we ran through this
a few lines of code,
we got our very custom visualization.
So the interactivity options with plot are
a little bit more limited than something
like D3, which, for example, is built to
make incredibly customized interactions.
So there are more options for
building interactivity into plot.
For example,
you can have certain state changes
on mouse over, and things like that.
But if you really want to get some super
fancy animations, or other kinds of
intricate interactions going on,
you're probably gonna wanna drop down to
a lower level library that gives you even
more flexibility with customizing that.
And D3 would kind of be
the logical next step from there.
But you can also check out
the plot documentation,
which is linked from these materials.
But it's also on the GitHub repo,
so github.com/observablehq/plot has
all of the API documentation, so you
can see what all the options are there.
But again, if you're trying to make
something really cool with confetti
going off when you hover
over a certain thing, or
what have you, you're gonna
want a more low level flexible
library that supports all kinds of fancy
animations and interactions like D3.
And again, Shirley Wu has some
great courses on Frontend Masters
that are an excellent kind of segue
after this first steps course.
So just to recap what we have covered so
far is some of the basic building blocks
of visualizations in general,
according to the grammar of graphics, and
their implementation in plot,
specifically.
So we've covered marks.
And in particular, we started looking
at this cell mark in the subsequent
exercises that we're gonna
do in our next two projects.
We're going to take a look at
a few different marks as well.
But we saw how we can configure marks with
these options objects that map channels,
encoding channels in the visualization.
So this output in the visual
space to inputs or
properties of the data
set in the data space.
And how we can even customize those,
we saw we can put in constant values if we
want a channel to always have the same
value coming out, we saw that earlier.
And we can also put in custom functions
if we have something that's a little
more complicated than a one to one mapping
from data features to channel properties.
And we also saw how to use scales in plot.
So in this case, we manipulated the color
scale, and the other scales like x,
for example, we can also customize here.
For example, we were rotating the ticks
on the x-axis with this custom property.
But we saw that with these scales,
we can configure the domain and
range of these scaling functions for
a particular channel, or in this case,
group of channels.
Because the color scale applies to both
the fill and stroke channels, as we saw.
To customize the domain of input
values and the range of output
values in the visual space that
these scales are using to make that
conversion from data values to
properties of the visualization.
So these are the concepts that
we've covered in this project.
And in the next project, we're gonna
take a look also at some aggregation
operations, some transforms that help us
aggregate data and group it together.
And also, we're gonna look at faceting, so
splitting plots up into smaller,
multiple charts that are gonna help
us get a more instant picture
of certain subsets of the data.